Now, we're gonna talk about GIN.
I like GIN.
>> [LAUGH]
>> That's it, next lesson.
[LAUGH] GIN stands for
Generalized Inverted Index,
and not juniper-flavored base spirits.
I guess it is that, too, but we're not
talking about that right now, maybe later.
It is specifically really useful where
multiple values could apply to one row.
And when I say that that's like full
text search where you could have,
if I'm searching for Tron Legacy,
I could be searching for Tron,
I could be searching for Legacy, both
of those values would apply to one row.
As opposed to a strict equality
check where you're looking for
Tron Legacy as a full search string.
So GIN's gonna be really useful for two
of the things that I've shown you today,
one of them I alluded to already,
which is full text search.
The other one is for JSONB columns,
because if you think about it,
if I'm looking for
tags that apply to a recipe,
dessert would apply to one of them,
gluten-free would apply to it.
Like it would have multiple
correct values of that,
or what would apply to
an individual JSONB column.
So I'm gonna show you how to set it up.
We actually don't have enough JSONB for
this to actually work, but
I'm gonna show you how
you would set it up.
So let's say I had this new
movie reviews table, and
all it had was an ID, a movie ID, and
then all of the scores as a JSONB.
So just copy and
paste all of these with me, okay?
So we'll come back over here.
So you can see now I have a bunch of
movies, I have a bunch of movie reviews.
Some of them have Washington Post scores,
some of them don't.
So if I wanted to search for
all Washington Post reviews, or
something like that, or
let's say Rolling Stone reviews,
he would do something like this, right?
SELECT * FROM movies WHERE
movie_reviews scores > 'rolling_stone'.
So you can see here this gives me
back all the Rolling Stone ones.
So here I can do EXPLAIN ANALYZE.
And it's doing a sequential scan
because it's not a very long table.
Now, if I wanted to create
an index on all of those various
different review types,
you could do that with this one.
So you'd say CREATE INDEX ON
movie_reviews,
WHERE, I set out where, but USING rather,
USING, and then you say gin here scores.
So you have to tell it,
what type of index which we're
using a GIN index,
generalized inverted index, yep.
And then that's gonna create an index.
Now, I can run that again, and like I said
the planners can be smart enough to say,
you don't have that many rows in there.
I'm not gonna use an index,
that would take me way longer than just
sequentially scanning through these.
Cuz again, Postgres is really good at
reading a lot of stuff really quickly.
That's the entire point of Postgres.
So this actually didn't really help us,
but
if we started adding 10,000 of these rows,
it would start using these.
And that's the point of GIN,
it's really useful for
these kinds of multiple values apply
to one column kind of searches.
>> Why was it still way faster
even if it didn't use the index?
If you look at the planning time,
I guess, way faster but-
>> I guess it is,
it's 25 times faster though.
Probably just ended up, you know what,
I bet you it's cached,
that would be my guess.
So let's say if I ran this with Washington
Post, my guess it's gonna go back
to, Being slow again.
Nope, maybe it did get faster,
I was not expecting that.
It's still doing a sequential scan but
maybe it's utilizing
the index in some way.
That one is actually a mystery to me, but
my other guess is that it's
probably still caching.
Cuz even if it's looking for
something else,
it probably was able to utilize
the same cache underneath the hood.
You would expect that to kind of
tell you that I use this thing.
But I don't know, JSONB, if you're gonna
index JSONB, you're gonna use GIN.
Those two should just kind of
go together in your brain.
I am gonna show you how to use GIN and
we're actually gonna see some
performance benefit now.
We're gonna use something
called a Trigram.
So let's say we want this to search for
all Star Wars movies in movies.
You can say SELECT *, let's just say name,
cuz we don't need all of it.
FROM movies WHERE name
ILIKE 'star wars'.
So you can see here, we got 30 rows of
things that are like Star Wars Okay?
Now, let's explain and analyze this.
We looked at everything, so
we did a sequential scan on movies,
it took about 5,000 units cost, right?
And it looked at 178,000 rows, so
100 milliseconds, not great, not bad.
What if you want, let's say that's
a really important part of our app,
so how do we optimize for that?
Well, let's talk about trigrams.
A trigram is, as you might imagine,
it's three characters together.
If you split a word into trigrams,
in fact, let's just show you what
that looks like,
you can SELECT SHOW_TRGM('star wars').
It will show you all the various different
trigrams that it will make out of the word
Star Wars.
Blank, blank s, blank, blank w,
st, wa, ar, ars, rs, sta, tar, war.
It's showing you every
permutation that it can make
of three characters together of Star Wars.
We can then index on that,
and then using GIN,
GIN will then use that same algorithm to
do multiple values that apply to one row,
two indexes, which makes it really
fast to do full text search.
Here's an actually fascinating thing,
GIN came before JSONB.
So they invented the search algorithm
before they invented the data type that it
searches on.
That it was so effective that they didn't
have to invent a new type of index for
JSONB, they just applied
the same principle using JSONB.
I thought that was a really interesting,
they were so
good at doing the generalized inverted
index that they didn't have to
reinvent the wheel once this
new data type came around.
Okay, so
we saw EXPLAIN ANALYZE from Star Wars.
Let's create an index, ON movies,
USING gin on name, and then we're
gonna give it a specific type of index,
which is gin_trigram operations.
This is not the only one that you can do
with GIN, there's other methodologies
of doing it, but this is the only
one that I'm familiar with.
So you can see that was actually
a decently hefty operation,
it took like a second, which again,
is really quite slow for 178,000 rows.
If you're going to create an index in
production, it can be really slow,
you might be ready you need to have
some downtime, it can be slow enough.
So just be aware that creating
indexes is expensive.
All right, so now let's do,
this was about 5,000, right?
Let's do the exact same query now,
but we've done it with GIN.
So we went from 5,000 down to 152.
Notice this had 0 setup though,
and this has 88 setup.
88 setup is a lot actually, but
it's expensive to use these
kinds of specialized indexes.
But we went from 103 milliseconds down to,
Less than 1, so not too bad.
So rows removed by index I don't know,
it's always interesting to look at these,
we can see we ended up
doing a Bitmap Index Scan,
which is ultimately what we wanted.
So, very cool.
Most of it you can see it
was a sprint planning, and
a little bit more than
half a sprint planning.
Whereas on the other one, planning
was 0.2 but it took 100 milliseconds.
So again, this is why the planner is super
cautious about when it uses an index,
because it knows using
indexes are expensive.